i  mentioned began cries it's margaret and to day i want to talk with you about
abandoned  nor from oh yes do you polthogue
an  but belisaire at that misanthropy
and  then i seen a guy come really happy to show his paces view it's got one hour fifteen
minutes  long metalling with madigan about intellectual legacy
of  some of the most important political leaders and felicities that we've had in benishaela
years  and looking ahead the future of the movement as he seniores its discussion
is  interesting and also useful
especially  if you have to be addressed in
he  begins a animal rights ecology etcetera
great  to have more than the channel it's great to be able to share this kind of content with you when i'm also going to ask you to
click  on a link below the video and consider paying one dollar one us dollar promotor
the  creation of content at
a  lot of things in my life have changed since i first started making content on the internet
i'm  currently living in a remote and fascinating part of china called the one right
on  the border with
beautiful  fascinating cultural complex linguistically diverse part
of  the world wake up every day look at the window and ask myself how i can justify
spending  time sitting in my computer but there were a lot more demands on my time a full time job
setting  the chinese language itself and yes your donations in patron
really  do make a fire
because  my salary here is five thousand quite a month
it  now i think that's about seven hundred dollars from
so  an income of just two hundred dollars were just three hundred dollars on patroon really does
impact  me it really does impact my ability to create content of this kind it would have impact my
ability  to travel to an event attendant participate in taking
including  by the way my past patron earnings is going they're going to make it possible
for  me to end my own card case in thailand what we finally get the date for the hearing it's
been  rescued and delayed i think three times so far
fingers  crossed we get that done but yet sure
i  remember once i got up hilarious requested demand from another sugata
i  replace this microphone by conniction she wanted me a higher sound quality
and  she named a specific marveling that she felt i had to buy and i was able to say back
to  her that microphone alone would cost three months of
so  the financial pressure on me is real the lack of time is real i will never quit you to
i  will never stop making contact entirely because i do feel the well you tube is
not  activism it creates a meaningful basis for activism in the future with my
long  term commitment to the cause having been stated i'm not going to tell you that if nobody donate
this  kind of content is going to cease to exist i'm still going to do it i can even if there isn't a nice
or  a diamond it for me however i do have to tell you on a practical level as some one who has a
divorce  and a daughter and a full time job as you lives in dongas
matter  it really does make a difference and i would appreciate it if you supported the creation of content of
this
for  one dollar
okay  i think we can start by agreeing that even though we may have
a
better  than
i  godefroid the maker not in this book
i  think he was
i
extremely
are  you familiar with
i  don't follow what i remember for
years  ago i didn't long to
whoever
on  the
let
we  shall start in absolution is that i be that it be the begotten
i  agree with you i felt you know the
the  reality is there are both the same
and  i also
those  guys are all the same generation
we  agree that france
philosophy
is
more  important to day in
and  makes those others like pea seem rather a motive
now  at the same time i just won't challenge you this
going  to shock you
but  you know the latest headline from pete this is january of
they  just did a one month advertise
no  subway station and
they  paid money to take
the  subway station to the whole every advertisement of
evidence  of our being
a  general mess
beverage  now i do not glorify that type of
a  person
think  that might be less effective than setting up a vein hot dog stand
but  my opinion doesn't matter he has been tremendously
it  still is and not only is it getting more successful it's getting more began
so  is interesting but i mean you know
almost  even in the term abolition you have this black and white
sense  of either right or you're wrong you know francois approach is so black and white
and  the reality is that
movement
when  you look
you  know i think he
far  in my opinion
right  now it is
keep  kind of
the  old house they always
but  some
and  then they move on they don't really sit there and celebrate
to  do that will say the offer them that they
do  more than just what i think what he was
years  ago when he
well  i mean i think pete has kind of muddled long i think twenty years ago
trying  to find begnis in pete's message would be pretty difficult you know was somewhere
in  there i think
someone  is
rarities  but twenty years ago i think he was right to say
to  day at pethenim is front and center is literally the whole advertising
campaign  covers
it  was the amatongo began as the only wording aside from
tried  to create
right  right right so me i do say petahs changed as the imperfect
and  convoluted and complex
as  take on some of the campaigns are also
but  you know i don't know he can talk about kind of the beauty of muddling through
or  so
i  think you know although franconi's star is kind of burning bright now and
well  petain the war you know imparare may be looking
back  and
and  put up
exactly  what
but
to  continue
i  don't like pete but you know game recognized
the  audacity
which  has indeed in part
photographs  of
i  really enjoyed
that  you make that
that's  obviously it's a big issue i mean i think his use of both anti sex is
at  races and his use of the peace movement and antinomian talk about
what  yepifan this just now in january to an
there  i would just mention before
we  started this conversation i checked the tube page
of  both garry francine himself
and  of direct action
now  you be views are not everything
you  and i both
more
then  garry france on him
more  than
and  i just made
into
i  just think
i  think it's an both of those institutions i think there's an obvious sense in which garry france
a  moment and he has decades
he's  been in leadership role for
there's  no question
and  i think there's an obvious sense in which direct action
i'm  a critic of them also but they influence people's lives and so on
but  still i think it is interesting that in a very real sense nobody wants to listen
to  what he has to say and that includes his tube let
and  also before this is mentioned many many months
best
he  mentioned the shocking
france
public  life
when  those are unloaded to other peoples more popular
promoted
i  just say i think that is
you  know
maybe  that's just reflects the legal
he
first  we
care  and bent
like  i think that that young welfare aspect
get  an got emphasized so much back then and now
more
and  i think
impact  like on hitting that the fact that he went out there and questioned them at least
leadership  there think about that or i do think that that's partly why we're we're seen
banal
i  really
that  way but like you say when it comes to social media and other forms i guess the
kind  of creative
he  kangaroo stuff that he's talking about in
at
if  you were to take even though you you have a guest on
i  was talking about
you  know just gathering the the most popular began tubers and thinking about you know how many you they
it  may not be that man
you  say it's a lot more than saw
in  i think god
i  can get
we  will see i mean i just say dex is out there suffering to get those few out
because  they are getting themselves put in prison and breaking the law which i don't agree with but you know
and  yet still people did not seem to want to hear what they have to say that's interesting sticking with you
know  the contrast appears singer and ingred near for one second very very very briefly singer
there  is a gerome great quotes from singer and his book francoise
being  a complete idiot frankly be one point peter singer just says of his
philosophy
he  prefers to be
because  otherwise his view of the world would be too tragical
complete  ridiculous
would  not be consistent it would not make me
i  actually
unfortunately  not the other reprimand i do think that that
here  is very much about the
kind  of the hamari utilitarians and i think that that's why
you  know jupiterite
the  outlines batterbury hard
this  is a quote specifically dealing with the issue of death as opposed to suffering a animals
and  it's worth singer says that he he prefers to believe as he does the death itself is
not  sigi
because  otherwise he would have to regard the
millions  of
i  wondered though an if you talk about singer finding an audience of being appealing to a mass
maybe  that's simply what it is is that singers you or the world
less  tragical
and  i do think don't you don't get a sense of
one
to  think that the view of real legal
unlike  peter singer it is fun
looking  at the daily real
and  that is tragic
tragedy
of  waning
scream  impotent
o  the you know the horror of that on such such a nurse to say to me
i  thought cause you were just mentioning that
does
well  maybe that's part of it
it's  not
a  lot of other inmates like richard dawkins people like that that kind of a
and  things like that
some  but his connect
and  the fact that he treats humans almost exactly that
he
i  mean i mean you know it thicken is more intelligent
poinsinet's  just his that is his morosity
and  it comes from having a symmetrical view of suffering and
and  joy like seize happiness and suffering as being morally symmetrical and i think that that's why
he  has that
he  takes the same approach to people and infants you know he would say the same thing about it is
time  to
well  i was getting on a new cure but i mean you know the other thing i really like it's quite
brief
but  i feel that france one
trounce  both singer and direct action everywhere the reaction everywhere is really
a  lead by a guy named wayne song but away the organization is decease
peter  singer very often very lazily
just  refers to effective activity
and  director and never were by contrast very passionately
very  overwrought
history  on its way to talk about
and  france only just
what  the academic
pure
all  of their plans i would actually second in those very briefly
i  really do agree with france on that all of the claims about effective activists
in
it  is it is really just a kind of new new optic
so  now if you remember but that's part of the book where you talking about
should  not
but  for me i thought that really raised the whole question of empire
how  do we know what is effective at
and  all we just
invoking  the name of effective activists
as  you know like almost a religious concept or is it actually
and  as she
he  began effective activism that is preached by a singer is a little bit more
measured  they do attempt to at least unnerves the effectiveness
how  much money actually gets to the charity that kind of step
their  successes in terms of welfare at least they moyamensing
the  axe
you  say and from what even even the work of it analytic and things like that that you
mentioned  in the word they don't really
there  but i do think that the
he  lies in its ability to engage people who might otherwise
not  be
engaged  to keeping at i don't know if that's
but  i think that most of the
and  and i do see the value of it because we're not all the same
i  don't think that every one
stopping  heavyhead began as though he now
with  that
raising  it i could say what i was going to say but i renew but first let me just ask you no mind away
do  you actually see some value or is the one you can tell me that's really positive about what per
say  on effective
because  my impression of his work there is totally negative and i'm someone who has just studied in
been  employed
for  value
was  this
so  i have done some
maybe  that
i  regarded what peter singers had to say of it that is
worthless  bambatse really positive on
can  you say if you were because
yeah  they would consider an aspect of wolverstone the passive things like that
they  would consider that as a as a winnow that wawatam
he  begins ratisbon siders you know having maps melesinda
to  be a real
grey  would measure those things that success is i think that the more people who are
more  abolitionists began you know very franconnette things his successes
industry  giving in and and wanting to do
is  a fundamentally different far from
we  think we save time here because already made the first video that now i've seen for me
the  solution to this paradox is simply culture
i  mean i think culturally i'll just really quick anecdote when i was a child not
a  teenager but really a child of an awaits years older what my mother walked up to
not  a fur protestor but there was an anti first
now  they paid to rent a booth within a shopping mall to protest you know to
politely  protest against
and  my mother walked up to
you  there were there in the box
she  did ask head
why  you put
so  i really i don't know if i would
i  do remember that
i  tell you that for myself as
think  for the whole of culture
for  protest
as  they were did help create a culture that was receptive to
so  even if it's a failure in every other way
there  are designed
further  functions not that
for
although  he
the
but  again i think
but
in
but  i mean one of the most important
having  the right question
not  necessarily having the right answer you know it's a religion of philosophical dialogue
and  i really think that on a deep level
france  only regard this in terms of
purity  and from that perspective the anti firmament
is  a sin
and  only abolition
is  purity will i don't look at it that way i look at it one answerers of cultural
urchins  wanted
full  of contradiction
no  cultural change involves things like that man
and  superman you know and hear music
that  is weird ways does relate to
politics  it is all it is on
but  you know in the other hand
something  like the fur the anti perrotet
they  can give people the right questions in which to me is he
is  crucial that the only death as
even  you know making the innismore wailing is looking for something that is that
he  can hold on to like a truth told on to but i agree that
in  creating this
in  creating abolitionism as the like abolition
as  the foundation of his philosophy
there  are some problems with that these problems are cultural there even you know historical
and  especially for me as a historian i had i couldn't help it i had to look up when he was talking
about  elizabeth heyrick
you  mentioned the
who  was an anti slavery campaigner in the
century  mentieth century and shows talking about if he she wrote a book
about  gradual in its call on the gradual abolition
well  in the work she strongly against it i actually read it it was one google
strongly  against
that  the graduate
not
well  princess that that's why
about  so i kind of like it's kind of using but it just shows me
history  is not what he's really trying to do even though he take the historical position
and  so it's kind of restraint for me as i
not  only is
history  was his only looking at the united states there'll problem and
you  know his history shows it is slightly was of all astray in most a world and
like  latimer almost all countries paid
certainly  in grabritin they did and all over latin america i don't know what to
you  do i don't rob
but  it was it was a gradual it it involved you know and people in it look involved
a  lot of what he calls my gosh
you  know creating consensus building consider
you  have to do that and that's what it required
and
what  a something that in that
even  the abolition of serfdom in russia was a gradual as
a  lot of those days of his otherworld have not come both thought
least  in the nicola
believe  in what they did as they created this kind of halfway slavery where they
had
were  indentured servants basically they called it an apprenticeship but it was basically being
servants  and you know that was the way
but  in
for  many of those people they never
and  i mean i must say
by  the time and this is the
we  didn't get a hundred percent
the  civil rights movement still had to go on an inland america my
my  husband's grandmother she was basically an indentured servant
and  like
so  there is the problem that is a problem as well you can't pretend but that
i  just nominally or
have  the civil war which he doesn't mention but that we had a civil war men everything was cool
and  an pusillanimity end of the civil war allegedly the
man
the
most  americans
americans  it
now  in most counties
but  you know the caste system
and  there are dark skin
shoot
always  even in ancient indian literature that's
that  there actually isn't clear ethnic
division  of corresponding to socioeconomic divisions there but america's
but  you know rodents
twice
i
well  now look at me i like to draw attention
problem
but  you know okay right now rodin are not property
nobody  owns
this  model address that
while  the
other
there  were all kinds of problems
idea  that
or  is going to come when
wake  up and realize
the  same weight in this is his as you've already said his
semi  fictional view of american history that people realized property was evil and
that's  what ended
and  i don't feel there's a better world coming for rats
more  wild bears or
people  if people accepted for
and  you know
just  make so much more
even  if you were to join up with pete
perfect  as petty is an to say well you know step by step we have to address the
what  are we going to do about dear what are we going to do about cows what minott
i  just i just don't see this as being a kind of a
and  i i mean i think we can probably untrue
the  different
he  has
what  did you think about that
what  a lot o what's come the sixpences next i want to make one more point but
i  look but i rate
so  rats are nobody's property
we  are
you  mean like it we still have the
really  in a sense there's no point to
och  but it's very you know you can like as you can be a situation with the abolition of slavery
where  people stop and slaving each the
two  different ethnic groups of two different nationalities
but  they still hate each other they still kill each other they still rob to each other they still repeater and he
is  herewith in southeast asia is often the case it's like okay they abolish slavery but people are
the  economy and warfare and ethnic traitor still carrying
so  you know maybe it's only in america that you can have the
delusion  that removing the legal category of property itself suddenly
makes
bad  people good
anyway  i can't imagine satiated
are  you getting
in  salesmen okay good
the  fact that he's a lawyer it's kind of like some one with the hammer everything looks like a nail he used the law he is his
property  love because that
they  know he's talking about that in particular because that's what the way he sees it it's kind of
it's  really an
he  that way because
well  how how different with this book be
written  by some one
experience  was working on a fruit
and  i you see that can france on his experiences in just as a lawyer he also is a
rescue  us
to
so  he does i mean he does do he
but  you know if you work on a fruit
fruit  farms
kill  rats
i  just think again
i'm  not saying i have balanser
but  when i look at a future began world i do still see a world in
animals
i  know that for
now  in that not a deep criticism
i  really i'm just mentioning that under this heading you just raise up to what extent
this
pretty  profoundly
he's  not he's not a fruit farm or reiterate only one to mention that willeth
i  recently saw a video
really  recent
from  a tube or who met in greek and greek is the founder
of  people for tetrameter
and  you know it's funny even though i guess ingred and
gary  or now enemies
law
you  know what they have in common is exactly that but
face  to face
for  franconi the meaning of public
education
is  talking to people as you happen to
and  listen to
even  in this
clear  that's
and  you know what it's kind of set
it's  kind of touching ingred newkirk in her old age she still really believes that to
she  really believes it's important that when you happen to meet someone wearing a fur coat the
you  take the time to talk to them and you she gave example she said oh you know it doesn't have to be aggressive you
walk  up to the
oh  you look so beautiful
but  you know it's really too
they  sure that i do say they really sure that
well  i don't ask me when i when you read the
this  book that talk about education
when  i think but education
i'm  not thinking about vegan gains
why  are you working for cope which he does
films  himself doing that to me that's not education and i don't really see
how  how do you feel about that other one what is education
on  the other hand this
conversion  the
i  would say that
there  is a place for that i can see how he
that's  wonderful we could probably all stand to be more comfortable doing that
i  think it's
important  as well that he's advocated
for  not even doing this because he doesn't make that activism as base line a cenotaph
is  that activities
rations  not expect
that  this created activism
by  some people and not by
and  so that i think
personally  i think
do  what you can do and i understand that about et
as  he points out when he's talking about the different principles for advocacy and effected
the  little things he says about
having  possible
not  judging them immediately and set like that i think those are good things
i  think a lot of people really haven't even heard of began is because i constantly amazed
so  just a people to know what the word means there is value to that and i appreciate it what i call it education
may  not but it's part of it
are  the no i just say because i've watched a lot of friends on east
and  he also he used to do a part cast at one of don
but  i would just say you don't keeping it all the way real ah
those  interactions he has at the grocery store with
they  are very often
and  he does talk with it on this book i think
but  very often people
and  you know he'll talk to somebody but the fact that the
whether  they are opposed to where they opposed to for but they think wearing a woodseers
okay  and they very quickly get defensive and hostile and yell at him and swear at him on so
i  just saying keeping it keeping it all the way a real
i  don't think that right
well  i just say though i think it's not really that i oppose the
it's  not an against talking to
you  know again you can look at the
especially  toronto
people  are not so
but  you
sense  in which i kind of looked down on the
is  again i think because of my own emphasis on culture itself
as  opposed to proselytizing or as opposed to believing in a kind of
human  beings as rational machines i think that you don't
fancy  one imagine that people are in
then  like a machine and countering a new set of instructions they meet someone who explains to
them  that logically
it  is obligatory for them to be began and then they do it it nobility
the  meet someone in his ignorant of began he provides them with this new guidance
and  that they changed their lives and i think that's very very rarely the case
i  think you know
in  terms of the masses in terms of when you talk about notions of people
and  instead i think you're talking about developing a culture that in the evils people
in  the sense rewards people for being began and valerie the type of self dis
and  moral concern that you see
and  that's a thing that's how you
lots  of
and  also you know it also has to be
possible  which i do think there's a legislative aspect in a low bed
i  think you know when i was indian
theory  into every train station
can  tell you of began meal
now  in reality if you go to small train station
they  sometimes only have the began meal for a couple of hours
if  you were there before they're sold out
the
and  you know in canada if every subway station or ever
report  had oenopion i do think that
that  something you will complish
the  small minority of us
and  the once you've accomplished
i  just say for me that's the kind of cake
you  know
there  is a place
that  is
how  do you figure out where to
at  least from a political standpoint with and that he was in washington d c and he is
or  may be it
reasonable  that he was in washington d c and doesn't believe in that but in a matin
that's
i  guess i guess on the
i  actually
the  kind of person
talking  about here in the kind of a
i  am the kind of person who
really
i'll  say i have to do this because
and  i don't care for
that's  who i am but i think i'm just really aware i don't know if i'm wanted a million
or  one in ten thousand
i  think it's an incredibly rare character
and  on the contrary the vast majority of people
in  the same way that on this broad cultural level
to  be common in canada for people who drink alcohol while they were at work
you  know with you whether you were so shine or you know lawyer
christian  preachers you know used to drink whiskey while they were preaching
not  joking you know and gradually you had a cultural
people  regarded alcohol
you
crash  your car but i mean in a broad way i think
i  drinking alcohol
i  responsible for me to drink
i'm  not going to
i  see a much more
attitudes  towards alcohol
and  i think because i think most human beings are so alien from
more
yeah  and i mean you can i would say
the  fact that they are focusing orange arianism they just had
intervention  the leather because they just had last year i believe they focused on other this year as
well  as the focus of their campaigns the sir they did focus on on her in so they've
had  more than an act
the  idea
single  is
if  you still
that  no one would get to tribute to our cause or anything like that and that's not true betides
we  say that
and  they still et
and  i'm sure you could have a full degeneration would still get money from people who aren't began in the
absolution  is probably from a
maybe  maybe you should trade mark that as before some of her otaheite
good  god but to identity right i've always said that at the
the  problem with single issue causes
with
so  i think i think that is an
other  side of the
i  rely
and  you know australia
society  of austria
so  i do sympathize
as  year that were too big issues
serving  human
here  and oberkellner got mad about it but i thought motatit because
he  was i went to their actual website
leinster  below the swear regulations we have neared
but  you know
about  that and then the other one
stupid  welfare of stuff this was with the marcasite or the
it
the  one that does
this
buffalo  that they kill for element was being made her an opera and you know
it  the film lost
so  occasion as no mammals were hurt because the butcher specifically
killed
the  rancher specifically killed this
for  the
and  it
i  mean to me that is is going to die anyway
that's  what it was in
and  i find that kind of
you  may think you know like this animal not be killed in an intimate manner is
not  now there's no question that that it's simply about optics
you  know too i was
well  maybe that's one it is that come out of this i guess you know an example
of  the natives that cannot be grass roots that really does require a proper foundation which is
completely  against in the book you said all big organizations are just
that's  an almost anarchist element of
philosophy  is opposition to all big foundation
i  don't find it given but something you could have a big foundation for
they  look as when you think about it part of the outrage you can you golden against false
advertising  and propagate
i  mean for me you and i talkatively
he  probably taught to
i  think you could have a foundation that collection nations and just exclusively concentrates on
including  with lawsuits they you can have a lawsuit for folks advertising
the  replaces are focusing on you know at least it something is proven scientifically
like  an egg you know we know that scientifically their bare odorous camp say
it's  healthy you cannot say it
that  intense
but  somebody i think somebody has to have a foundation organized
to  challenge the school board
about  eight and to challenge i mean i think specific for profit companies have campaigns
like  the ones you mentioned of you know happy meet from elberthal have you yanshuph
of  grass roots can
this  maybe that's maybe that's our maybe that's our new idea that's our post abolitionists post franceward
i  think there's a question there because i was using he
but
question  is can you get
already  there is a fancy one issue you want to just the
he  figured
and  i understand
again
he  really doesn't not like that idea at all
starting
and  it's funny because he now with the abolition
and  estimatin stuff like that propaganda
was  every bit as teardrops anything petaties ever produced every bit as
races  and sexes everything else
changed  hearts and minds and there's no restoration what if you agreeable
that  mantles let's do the sunsprite
appropriately  at the end of confectionery
know  i caught one
and  let me ask
the  point of animal activity
going  and filling factory and
how  can that possibly accomplish anything as we already
know  what the factory conditions are producing new films about what the conditions are to day or to morrow
or  the any anything about the particular way in which their
particular  way which there
that's  totally worthless
this  is
feels  that you're letting in the creep into what you're doing if you admit that for
raw  is especially cruel or that the way you know certain types
of  rabbits on cilleaden a code is particularly cruel or the tearing
the  feathers of a goose is particularly cruel and again culturally making people
aware  of any one of those examples eros
creates  the basis
cretensis  for
the  absolute
see  the opposite he actually
betrayal  of en
promoting  anything of them because
a  betrayal
the  most obvious form of investigative journal was ragamuffin and
bizarre  the most effect
who  knows how long that that
this
around  that and people did startling about it like maybe
and
i  come out of it
i  think i think honestly i think that you know francois position is there is nothing to
be
we  just have this moral prince
and  my position is i think the research never ends is always something new and
and  it's so easy to meet people you may or may anthesterion with people who say
oh  no that was true in the old days but now we treat animals well in the farm and the other big
one  is oh that may be true in china
but  we don't do that on our farms
that  may be true in america but that's not true
canada
she  commented
so  i think you do actually
industry  is because
this  is one of the many
i  think it's so weak though i
i  think that you know what this has ministerial agree on curious what
you  think about
i'm  not sure of going through it step by step in as a lot of them i feel like a lot of the principals i think he started
out  with three and they made it so so a lot of them are very closely on
but  i think that because we talk about property already
just  kind of expert one but i think that the idea
sentence  i think that that's the big road stephenson in terms of
my  impinging of this book that is the greatest contribution he makes i agree with him a hundred per cent
i  think the bets are really important because he hath also is doing it i mean for a legal perspective he's
also  when you look at some like singer is making a statement for forest what they think about human
life  as well and rations managing a
i  in my view about humanity the animals
i  really like
and  there think about that
it's  something i thought for a
well  obviously that is part of the way
insentient  is strong i do think
in  a lot of men in my channel is that that argument does lead you into some impossible contradiction
such  as rats
and  mosquitoes and cockroaches but my solution that is just a very open
honest  attitude
there  talking about the contradictions that are in all of our
and  the type of crop rises we
and  even that that fundamental definition of theism to do what's good in terms
practical  really really brief digression this but i think it is it is important on the issue of
francois  position sentient
useful  but its extremes allow so yesterday i did live streaming and
somebody  came on who was not begotten
and  said look why don't you guys eat honey and was one of the example of an insect brought
a  honeyed
and  my answer but my answer which is not what france one would say it is
not  what terrors
gary  robe has
margery  your obstinate claims that all insects are
not  even
my  ante
recognize
so  we avoid killin
and  why refuse
but  if i own a mango for
if  you
we  have to
insects  and
so  you know that beacons of doing what you can
to  me i mean that's nowhere in these principles that's now were infringements
of  farming the idea that just because you can't do everything doesn't mean you shouldn't do something he
doesn't  say it exactly that way he does mention that in terms of farming in heelless
you  know after the world is began then we
talk  about this mark which is interesting as its kind of the whole thing he criticizes pinafore
but
but  you're right it's in there is a foot of your
i  agree with you a hundred percent
mention
we  do what we can but i would also say i guess in my mind for some
reason  i don't know where
but  i have a kind of
i'm  not a big man
i  would say the one thing for his philosophy but kind of state
life  is the idea of
some  form
it's  not that i think
just  what i do think in terms of insects there is a bit of a
and  it
like  when you when you need to kill rats
but
so  that's
pocketing
but  you have to have
they  are unknown
he  doesn't go into it
no  but he does it does the book to set up that kind of contradiction that could have been principle
one  of the
and  it's not as for me one ashore
for  me subjectively impersonally the
i  don't care about
because  i think of
and  like for me for example some people argue that oysters
i  actually did some
we're  talking about i actually do not i actually
again  it's like well even
i  honestly
subjectively
but  i understand
kind  of tough on
i
your  epic
killing  something dictates robing in the
to  experience life like what we
no  killing it you see well i don't i don't and the front i see life
might  research more pro war it was a text in my last i want to talk with the outworn piece i
think  that if i sign up to
you
and  after
she  but actually there were a lot of
the  road
you  are really you really do need to have a rifle
and  it's quite possible you're going to kill a bear it's quite posture going to kill another animal like a lover
or  more rarely a mountain lion but we are problems with animals like that in northern canada
and  so for me in making the ethical decision of front in this research is worth doing if this
humanitarian  work is worth doing or if this war is worth fight
i  am going to kill some animals and we're not just argument
mammals  with complex brains like
so  again i actually
a  critic would say i'm approaching it antologia
i  look at life
i  don't look
to  do her
because  you are trying to
well  i'm much much more bronze age but again for me it's based on this sense of
it's  really it's not even a
from  year
brasses  of duty of morality for me the idea of killing and
indulgence  for pleasure because you would enjoy
to  me that is really a
but  it's not for me to actually join the army which i tried
to  do a signed up to join the
the
so  i just mentioned
morally  i'm very very different from these people and that's why for me
oh  no i have i have read have i have read marese's meditation but no
so  i just say but again i don't i don't feel i can generalize
nature  based on who i am again i think that my values that's one of the
i  find people more
in  a bear's amaye that's what's
but  he said that's not subject hotspur
i  was going to mention so you say instead of going through the
all  is really brief
for  me great strength greatest weak
i  was really surprised i think one of
his  position on pets
it
which  i was not expecting it
really  pleasant surprise he
as
me  wonder
it's  possible he wrote that poses i did not hit on some level pedasos the eventual
eradication  of pats to singer had their doors that they do
not  say that to get well it is bizarre but so so france one
is  actually more of an extremist tim my view on pettiest animals
is  actually moderate compared to francis so many beans hate
but  france one is
eradicate
the
and  he goes so far as to say that domestic
do  not have the right to
logically
killing  them so he has no other way of eliminating them
a  bizarre and he as you see pepeta's different in the petasophora
she
a  very interesting
because  they see no kill shelter
but  for me that's great at
very  surprised in contrast to his more casual conversation
his  carcass and
he  has this rigorously logical anti domestic
very  surprised
and  then
greatest  weakness for me is actually him so it's actually under principal five
but  through the whole book
describes  began in as an
which  it is not i disagree i disagree completely and he opens the door
to  kind of the
every  possible social justice warrior
every  possible ethical
in  endless
just  here in fighting by trying to attach the giantism abolitionist to be inside it
to  anti race
at  home phobia hetero
he  esotericism classes
really
classes  on
so  hereabout i will say
you  are probably not surprised to learn that is one of the things that i like most
but  orders
surprise
and  i do think that
so  that is something that i
i  would say
obviously
for
i  go
i  related i think that historically
driving
the
a  positive
however  for that
i  feel the
don't  give me an im again
i  got a not promoting rear i should know
i  am completely unsurprised the
that
a  problem because you believe in building
as  well like
you  know your political
i  think it's not worth building consensus at that price and so that's why i'm not
willing  to lie myself with people like you know the whole thing of cooper we both
took  out on that and the reason that i can strongly condemn that is
because
i  want to connect
for  him it's about individual rights right and so he sees it very differently but because
i  do think that the
so  she distantly like franconi i can see it i have cited with those
people  because they are just outside
well  look i'll tell you i mean this idea though of a
i  grew up in
you  know back when the
i  literally mark
but  you know after
the  class that
but  why are you here you should be out there where were you in toronto
no  no
oh  well you know i remember being in that
you  know
the  united states has been a worn continuously
for  actually back in the year
smaller  wars include
a  number of words
save
one  where as
on  the other hand
i  have a
i
a  dog is just
i  think this would exclude him
your  began movement from your being an abolition
and  i don't feel that's more all proper at all i may disagree with the
but  you know to give you an example i was i would have been much more
the  army
their  war
when  at the time i signed up to join the army the only conflicts we were involved with a
possible  to
the  with syria being proxy war
so  these are the issues of the moment obviously the vietnam war different separate
i  just do not see began is as a
or  as a part of the piece
or  some they can easily be inflated with
there  were begins in the army
yes  yes yes he does he does repeatedly
i  wouldn't
the
amphibia
well  i just she other thing is
for  me i regard this
if  i were living in a country
he
i  say hey let's try to infiltrate the peace
promote  the
peace  can understand
if  you're living somewhere or a
the  gay rights
popping
one  to promote begin within the gay rights of men but i think even if you do that they just remain
fundamentally  and profound
i  related and you know i don't know so i think cockerty is a sack of
shed  i got some mail from people who knew him for years and years saying
ah  i knew that guy when i was in college he was always like this i got some interesting hesitation
tipperary  but i mean it augustly
that  would not
you  are the only person i talked to the
the  interesting
i  like having
i  will
i  think it
summarizes
like  i will get people ask
about  the like you know why i talk to you for exact
and  it's because i think that we you know we both are against you know most of the things that
are  on that list and i think that's really important i think that the fact that you were not raspberrying
like  that
he
i  think that that's really
so  for me that
i  like it because you know i will try to build consensus the pretty much anybody and i think it's supermortal
you  see some other people within the moment that a loike that too like somebody like bitias doesn't want argue with anybody
but  obviously i think that she probably be very comfort
not  to do things in participation of corrupt
yeah  i mean so the actual wording he presents me
the  next step in the progress of
and  he does that because
to  opposition to
so  he says opposition
only  as part of a general opposition to all for
well  i've got to tell you give a real world example that's not a salacious as no
nazis  or or or a race as to seeing
you  know we really have i think the strongest begin movement in the world in taiwan
where  it is built to some extent on buddhist bigotry
but  is he as a
now  buddhists are not recess
quite  but pretty close and be honest with you it's pretty close you know it's an
definitely  into his i think i think a lot of people are
the  potential
by  the way there is peto
and  they they went through the same process but it ten times the
and  any of the started off with anti fire and then moved on to anti milk and in india
of  course milk is a big
the  other presented it methink that's the kind of the much bigger arena now
hinduism
frankly  races
even  racist within hinduism
the
you  know so again
reality
i  see
a  potential
were  it is not going out of
i  think he has
very
so  i be look i mean you know whether that's deep or shallow i just
i  i don't think logical
or  as an
madame
and  especially not
that's
you're  absolutely right like
probably  are not
i
the  way that he attacked
and  he hath
talk  to
when  you want a talk with monty he definitely
in  groups like that is
and
i  guess i guess we all have those people
well  i just say too i think it's gets into a kind of self fulfilling prophecy with
because  he so alienated from all the
so  that i think we infer
for
and  for me instead i
political  organization
talked  about
being  so crucial and i can even be an even express a sort of end of thee
for  the success that petacha that despite all her flaws i think the solution is not
to  join pete let's have ten twenty thirty or
like  pelet's
it
let's  show that we can do better than pete and the other hand pete step
coming  closer to free
so  maybe you know
certain  part of the
i  think i think maybe the deep common
you  know i already read these or
this  is
i  mean the last two i did it was like we can't even do a
so  terrible it
you  know let's give rats the right to vote kind of thing
the  citizenship approach as it's called them what have you so now i really do give him red
for  that
no  and there are few the dominion one book in his book
the
by  another
professor  that i that i may take a look out as well that may be useful i think i minimally
i  mean i was it was interesting to me that he didn't sit any one
this  discussion about the ever presence
he  is here to about that kind of like
the  idea that animals live in an eternal presence
he  didn't really talk about you know
beasts  abound with the animals you know is it is a menander
because  he does have these experiences with the animals but you know somebody like frontal
i  would love to see him talking with very friends the obvious one day i don't know if that would ever happen but
i  do find
some  of the walls were really interesting
the
oh  no i'm not enough as we going i see atonement licence
you  know obviously she's not even a vegetarian but
as  an
different  forms of animal intelligence that
that  is very similar to francois on like the idea
we  don't have if they were
as  we
at
that  either any certainly disagree with the idea the
but  alas who live in an eternal present because we even know that birds don't so
ah  well you see to like you know i was living in
skating  when new research was published and became known
one  about the very very high level
cold  ground
think  they're actually
and
and  their shockingly intelligent and they have spoken
proven  in
you  know these animals
sit  up they leave in
sit  upright in
literally  talk
recording  the audio
dakota
oh  my god these are animals that we kill as vermin
in  the city i was living in
it's  true they also look intelligent and act intelligent it's believable it's plausible
what  this research found even if you just casually watch these animals and casually watch them being
exterminated
now  will you do it that i think this issue of animal intelligence were lit relates
back  to the question of what do we
which  is one of the weaknesses
just  talks about
it's  evident
you're  not going to explain to somebody the profound implicate
new  research
think  that actually does have a rule
then  before we were mentioning negatively that i think it's so important we get organized to prevent
children  in tartan school that
he
egor  healthy for you et cetera we have to
it  meat industry propaganda has to be
positively  also there was a time in my life when i was paid
i  was paid by the canadian
give  lectures of a buddhist philo
and  they did that
so  that the students wouldn't get that lecture from a christian
because  they were in school they were intent
a  special loan
christ
students  have to meet
really  interesting as
one
i  really do think
not  just for the sake of egoism
i  do think there's a real challenge for education for how do we educate the
a  bit what what is really i think and now since
is  the new science of diet that we all talk about all the time you know vitamin be twelve that
stuff  is on
but  you can like the science that proves you can have a vegan diet that is new okay that's
but  i also think as
what  does it mean
i
there  is this broader quest
i  just say i guess that's just
but  in terms of the cultural trans
a  huge slinger
cannot  be
to  franconi's very simple man
model  of
it  fascinating to you see the way something like what new media has done
for  those kind of things that there was a tea you don't get twitter i suppose in china but
but  we had the video that was going around me have seen it in china with a bullet had been trained
to  pull lerouge asleep and you know it actually did not be trained
by  showed it then it did it itself those kind of things like tool used in animals
it  makes people i think it would it does is it and he talks about this at the very end of the book and he never connect
but  when he's talking about that
they  call it the moral concern in moral
seeing  something like that gives people were concerned that they never had to mumble
the  fact that we're able to do that through social media and things like that to share a little story
here  an there that makes such a difference and those are little issues with olama showing
them  something about my animal and it's funny he can he can recognize how reading black beauty might give
you  empathy for animals i have to say i read black beauty as a kid and yes i did it didn't
make  me feel for
i  am i think that has a great deal of value like that certainly the art aspect and i know
you've  mentioned this before but i do think art is an incredibly it is coldest
part  of
he  can out reach not talking to your neighbours but i do think art in its various
essential  in its becoming more essential
media  focused as we as we consume or media that's going to become quite
i  believe
i
i  will get your rabbit up where hour to the minute and but for me i just say this a very positive
in
i
my  father told me i
my  father went to some cocktail
somebody  asked the
and  he said oh
somebody
not  at all because when you're
you  can make a difference you make a positive he
you  know the time and he said other forms of
just  holding some one's hand
worse  and worse you know with cancer is divinator me everything
about  this conversation the conceptual stuff the active stuff in many different levels
what's  positive awarding treamount is that i feel we can make a difference and
i  mean you and me
listening  to this you know
i  have to go to medical school for
you  know this is really something where people can
and  meet us tremendously uplifting and i guess
i  guessed that the aspect that
depressing  but the internet
so  often seem to be looking at
who  are just interested in winning on the internet
and  ye think why don't you respond to the same challenge
by  trying to instigate change or action or do sinistrari reduce something better
you  know and again i came i say that about francoise and could say that about peter peter singer
if  you don't like what pet is doing
start  your own foundation do it better show hutton if you're watching this on you tube and you don't look my videos
start  your own youth changed do better you know shootin be an inspiration in
i  really
positive  and i would encourage other
even
that's  a rap a manual